[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Welcome to House
of Well-being.
You're listening to the "Better
Sleep Hypnotherapy" audio.
In a moment, the hypnosis will
begin, but before it does,
I'd like to remind you that
the following audio contains
powerful hypnotic suggestions
to help you reach a really
deep level of relaxation.
So please be sure that wherever
you're listening to this audio,
you're in a safe and
comfortable place
free from distractions where
you can fully relax and let go.
Please don't listen to this
if you're driving or operating
machinery.
Should there be an emergency,
your subconscious mind
will alert you, and you'll
easily come out of hypnosis.
But right now there's
nothing at all
you need to do apart
from close your eyes,
relax, lay back, and
let go and really enjoy
those peaceful feelings and all
the benefits that come with it.
Make yourself as
comfortable as possible
and concentrate on
the sound of my voice
and begin by drawing in
a long, slow, deep breath
in through your nose.
Hold the breath for a moment.
And now slightly open your
mouth and release all the air
from your body in a
long, low deep sigh
and relax, allowing your
lungs to naturally deflate
as your body sinks into
gentle relaxation now.
And you can release any tension.
Relax and let go as I
guide you through a journey
of relaxation, a journey that
you will find very beneficial
for your overall well-being.
You're going to start
this calming experience
by first relaxing your
whole body mind system.
And it's true to say that the
simple act of relaxing the body
and mind has a positive knock-on
effect because how you think
determines how you
feel and how you feel
influences the world around you.
And how you choose
to think today
affects your decisions
from here on in.
So to make my
assurances your reality,
let's begin by
focusing your attention
at the very top of your head.
Tension often starts at
the scalp and the neck.
So mentally and physically
allow all the muscles
around the top of your
head to relax now,
letting all the
tension simply dissolve
as you start to tune in
to your body mind system.
Just let any tension you may
be holding to release now.
Allow your brain to relax,
the left and the right
lobes of the brain
just releasing.
Such a simple thought yet so
profound and so significant,
just letting go completely.
Drifting further
and further down.
Nobody wanting anything,
nobody needing anything this
is your time to relax.
Taking the relaxation
into the face
now, allowing all of your
facial muscles to feel loose.
Feel your brow relaxing,
your forehead smoothing out,
the back of your eyes relaxing.
Tiny muscles around your
eyes and eyelids down
into your cheeks and
into your jaw muscles,
just releasing and letting go.
Allowing your
tongue to fall away
from the roof of
your mouth and should
you find you need to swallow,
just do that now and drift
down and down, deeper and
deeper into blissful relaxation.
The more you physically
relax, the more
you can mentally relax.
And when you can
mentally relax, you
can think much more clearly.
And when you think more clearly,
your life becomes clearer.
You make better decisions,
and you're much more
in control of your days.
So noticing now how
your neck feels,
relaxing all little muscles,
letting go of the strain,
letting go of the tension.
Allow that tension that you
may be holding in your shoulder
to go now.
Feel the shoulders
both of them sinking
into the frame of your body.
Feel your neck lengthen
as you do this.
Feel or imagine all your
cares and worries just
rolling off your shoulders now
as you take the relaxation down
now into the tops of your
arms, letting any tension you
may be holding just drain away.
And as your awareness flows
down through your upper arms
into your elbows, all the
muscles in your forearms
relax right down to your wrists
and into your hands and way
down into the very tips of
your fingers and thumbs.
Your arms are feeling so heavy.
Your body's so comfortable.
Nothing whatsoever
to do but just
relax and enjoy this feeling
of total release now.
As you let go of all the
tension in those muscles,
you may experience them becoming
calm and gently releasing
and just tune into the
feeling of simply letting go.
As you become aware
of your breathing,
notice that you are now
breathing steadily and slowly,
rhythmically.
And with each exhale,
you feel yourself
just relaxing even
more deeply, allowing
any tension in the chest area
now to simply drain away,
letting go completely
and totally.
Bring awareness
into your stomach
now and let all your
stomach muscles relax.
And as you do, I
want you to imagine
a ball of sunlight passing
down from the top of your head
down through your face, your
throat, and into your stomach.
Visualize this healing
energy passing down
through your throat and
chest and into your stomach.
So see and feel the sunlight
swirling and rotating.
And as the light glows, it
warms and soothes and heals,
and you release and relax and
drift down and further down.
And in your imagination,
you send the sunlight out
now to every nerve cell,
bone, muscle, fiber,
and system of the body.
See it flowing through
the bloodstream
and leave the light there.
It knows what to do.
As you take the relaxation
round into your back muscles
and from your back muscles,
it relaxes those muscles
either side of the spine,
releasing, relaxing,
and just letting go now,
deeper and deeper now.
As you relax your
waist and the muscles
of your lower stomach and
down into the pelvic area, all
the way down through
the large thigh muscles,
down through your knees,
your shins, and your calves,
just allow all those areas of
the body to relax and let go.
You're so relaxed, so
heavy, so comfortable.
And now tune into that
comfortable feeling
as you think on down to
your ankles into your feet,
right down to the very
tips of your toes.
All the muscles of your body
now so beautifully relaxed
and you feel very heavy
and very comfortable.
And you're feeling centered and
relaxed and fully in control.
If there are any
areas of your body
that still feel
tight or tense, you
find that you can relax them
simply by giving yourself
permission to do so.
And you can now go even deeper
as I count down from 8 to 0.
And with every number, you
feel yourself drifting further
into blissful relaxation.
So 8, 7, 6.
5, deeper now, 4, 3, 2,
1 and 0, deeply relaxed ,
letting go of all
the cars and worries,
all the tension and pressure
and stresses and strains.
Let them all ease from your
body and ease from your mind
and allow yourself to drift
down into a deeper more blissful
state of creative relaxation.
Now that you're in a
deeply relaxed state,
I'm going to talk
about better sleep.
Insomnia is the inability to
fall asleep and stay asleep.
It's not defined by the amount
of hours of sleep you get
or how long it takes
you to fall asleep.
Not being able to
sleep well can be
caused by many factors including
stress, worry, anxiety,
depression, perhaps
a medical condition
as well as many other factors,
maybe a noisy environment,
extreme temperatures,
jet lag, shift work,
going through the menopause,
misuse of alcohol,
caffeine, and other substances.
It can also take place
if you have a belief
and tell yourself and others
that I'm a bad sleeper.
As effectively every
time you say this,
you're training your mind that
when it comes to bed time,
here is where you
don't sleep well.
So from now on in, today
you are taking back control.
You start to believe more and
more each and every day, hour
by hour that you are now an
excellent sleeper, that you
fall asleep easily and stay
asleep for seven to nine hours
or until the time
you want to wake up.
And from now on, you set
yourself some good sleep
hygiene rules.
You know that what
you eat and drink
can have a big impact on
the quality of your sleep.
So you avoid fatty, fried, or
spicy foods before bedtime.
Alcohol is a stimulant, and
whilst initially calming
and relaxing, it
will actually make it
harder for you to sleep
deeply and continuously.
So you cut down on the amount
of alcohol you drink each week.
You avoid drinking too
much fluid before bed,
knowing that this
will only result
in you having to wake
up and go to the toilet.
And, of course, you know
that caffeine is a stimulant,
and it takes six hours, which
is half of the caffeine,
to be eliminated.
So it may be that you
stop drinking caffeine
after mid-afternoon, choosing
instead to drink more water
and to hydrate and feel your
body in more healthy ways.
Perhaps you start
to exercise more,
knowing that exercise
triggers an increase in body
temperature.
And the post-exercise
drop in temperature
helps to promote falling asleep.
And, of course, exercise
also reduces insomnia
by decreasing anxiety
and depressive symptoms.
So you start to increase your
exercise a little each day,
perhaps leaving the house
for longer periods of time
to exercise or adding a few
more exercises to your existing
routine.
From now on, you are
an excellent sleeper.
You fall asleep easily and stay
asleep for seven to nine hours
or until the time
you want to wake up.
You start to create the right
sleep zone and better bedtime
ritual.
You make sure that your
bedroom is nice and dark,
and your body has a natural
clock, the circadian clock,
which helps you
regulate your sleep.
And this clock is strongly
influenced by light
and the amount of light and
darkness present in your room.
So you ensure you have
enough darkness now,
putting up blackout
blinds if you need to,
and you ensure your
room temperature is
neither too hot nor too cold.
Your bedding is just
how you like it.
You find a place where noise
is minimal to aid better sleep.
You create a sleep zone that
is tranquil and comfortable,
making any of the necessary
changes that you need to.
You no longer take
naps during the day
if that's what you were
doing, knowing that this only
teaches your body that
sleep is for daytime and not
for nighttime.
And you only go
to bed or to sleep
when you're tired, allowing
yourself time to wind down.
You may choose to do
this by staying off
technology, by reading, or
simply doing some meditation
as this will get your mind
and body into a deep state
of relaxation ready for sleep.
And as you sleep
through the night,
you find that you feel more
energetic, more cheerful,
and that you have much more
energy the following day.
So beginning tonight or tomorrow
night or even in a few nights
from now, you're able to go
to sleep without difficulty,
and you sleep well
throughout the night.
You wake up feeling
good, feeling positive,
and ready for the
day's activities.
From now on, you are
an excellent sleeper.
You fall asleep easily, and
you stay asleep for seven
to nine hours or until the
time you want to wake up.
I'd like you now to visualize
yourself at bedtime.
Notice that before you get into
bed, you're wearing a jacket
and this jacket has many pockets
in it, and in each pocket,
there's something
you're worrying about
or that you're anxious
about, perhaps something
you have to do, a
conversation that's
on your mind, a fear or
negative thought that's
weighing you down.
You can feel how heavy that
jacket is, full of worries
and things you need to do.
It's no wonder you
don't sleep well
at night when you have all of
those things weighing you down.
See yourself now
taking everything
out of the pockets and
one by one putting them
into a wooden box.
Take your time now.
Make sure everything
is out of the pockets.
These are not something you
need to worry about now.
They're not something
you need to take to bed.
You can pick those
up in the morning,
but for now, it's time
to sleep, to rest.
This is your time,
time just for you.
As everything is
out of your pockets,
you gently lock the
wooden box and place it
outside of your bedroom.
You can come back to that
box tomorrow if you want to.
The jacket feels so light now.
It's no longer
carrying everything
that has been weighing you
down and see yourself now
slipping the jacket off as
it lightly falls to the floor
and you leave it there.
You no longer need it.
You climb into bed and you
feel as light as a feather,
excited about getting
a good night's
sleep as you know you will.
You are confident you will sleep
straight through the night,
confident you'll sleep all the
way through to the time you
want to wake up tomorrow.
See yourself fall asleep
and you sleep continuously
until the morning.
And if you stir in
the night, you simply
drift straight back
to sleep again,
only waking until
the time you want to.
And the following
day, you notice
how refreshed and happy and
full of energy you feel.
From now on, you are
an excellent sleeper.
You fall asleep easily and stay
asleep for seven to nine hours
or until the time
you want to wake up.
And these hypnotic
suggestions are now
embedded in your
subconscious mind,
and they'll become
more and more powerful
as the days and weeks go by.
And in a moment, I'm
going to count from 1 to 5
to awaken you if
you wish to awaken.
And at the count of 5, you'll
be wide awake, fully refreshed,
alert, and feeling fantastic.
Or you can continue
drifting, dozing into sleep,
whatever suits you most.
So 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5.